Precision support (#2815)
ROCm/ROCm: docs/about/compatibility/data-type-support.rst

.. meta::
  :description: Supported data types in ROCm
  :keywords: int8, float8, float8 (E4M3), float8 (E5M2), bfloat8, float16, half, bfloat16, tensorfloat32, float, float32, float64, double, AMD, ROCm, AMDGPU

.. _rocm-supported-data-types:

*************************************************************
ROCm data type specifications
*************************************************************

Integral Types
==========================================

> 

Reviewer: All tables should be introduced by preceding text. Similarly, all headers need to be followed by text before including a figure or table.

Author: I made the changes, asked @LisaDelaney to check the grammar.

Author: @MKKnorr reviewed.

    *
      - tensorfloat32
      - ``-``
      - Floating-point number that occupies 32 bits or less of storage, providing improved range compared to half (16-bit) format, at (potentially) greater throughput than single precision (32-bit) formats.
    *
      - float32
      - ``float``
      - A 32-bit floating-point number, conforming to the IEEE 754 single precision storage format.
    *
      - float64
      - ``double``
      - A 64-bit floating-point number, conforming to the IEEE 754 double precision storage format.

.. note::

  * The float8 and tensorfloat32 types are internal types used in calculations in the Matrix Cores and can be stored in any type of the same size.
  * The encodings for FP8 (E5M2) and FP8 (E4M3) natively supported by MI300 differ from the FP8 (E5M2) and FP8 (E4M3) encodings used in H100 (`FP8 formats for Deep Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.05433>`_ ).
  * In some AMD documents and articles float8 (E5M2) is called bfloat8.

The support icon description
==========================================

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * 
      - The support icon explanation
      - Support icon
    * 
      - Not supported
      - ❌
    * 

>       - Partial support

Reviewer 2: this doesn't seem to be used in the document and we decided not to have this earlier. if nothing changed we should remove this

Author: We found one place, where it was needed.

    :sync: integral-type

    .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * 
        - Type name
        - int8
        - int16
        - int32
        - int64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅

  .. tab-item:: Floating-point types
    :sync: floating-point-type

    .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * 
        - Type name
        - float8 (E4M3)
        - float8 (E5M2)
        - float16  
        - bfloat16
        - tensorfloat32
        - float32
        - float64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅

.. note::

  At natively not supported cases, the atomic operations can be emulated by
  software. Such software emulated atomic operations have high negative

>   performance impact, when they frequently acces the same memory address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  performance impact, when they frequently access the same memory address.
```
Typo

.. meta::
  :description: Supported data types in ROCm
  :keywords: int8, float8, float8 (E4M3), float8 (E5M2), bfloat8, float16, half, bfloat16, tensorfloat32, float, float32, float64, double, AMD, ROCm, AMDGPU

.. _rocm-supported-data-types:

*************************************************************
ROCm data type specifications
*************************************************************

Integral Types
==========================================

> The ROCm™ components supported signed and unsigned integral types with different
> width listed with the HIP type and short description in the following table.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The signed and unsigned integral types that are supported by ROCm™ are listed in the following table, together with their corresponding HIP type and a short description.
```

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 15,35,50

    * 
      - Type name
      - HIP type
      - Description
    * 
      - int8
      - ``int8_t``, ``uint8_t``

>       - An signed or unsigned 8-bit integer.
>     * 
>       - int16
>       - ``int16_t``, ``uint16_t``
>       - An signed or unsigned 16-bit integer.
>     * 
>       - int32
>       - ``int32_t``, ``uint32_t``
>       - An signed or unsigned 32-bit integer.
>     * 
>       - int64
>       - ``int64_t``, ``uint64_t``
>       - An signed or unsigned 64-bit integer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      - A signed or unsigned 8-bit integer.
    * 
      - int16
      - ``int16_t``, ``uint16_t``
      - A signed or unsigned 16-bit integer.
    * 
      - int32
      - ``int32_t``, ``uint32_t``
      - A signed or unsigned 32-bit integer.
    * 
      - int64
      - ``int64_t``, ``uint64_t``
      - A signed or unsigned 64-bit integer.
```

 
Floating-point Types
==========================================

> The ROCm™ components supported floating-point types listed with the HIP type and
> short description in the following table:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The floating-point types that are supported by ROCm™ are listed in the following table, together with their corresponding HIP type and a short description.
```

    *
      - bfloat16
      - ``bfloat16``
      - A shortened 16-bit version of the IEEE 754 single precision storage format.
    *
      - tensorfloat32
      - ``-``
      - Floating-point number that occupies 32 bits or less of storage, providing improved range compared to half (16-bit) format, at (potentially) greater throughput than single precision (32-bit) formats.
    *
      - float32
      - ``float``
      - A 32-bit floating-point number, conforming to the IEEE 754 single precision storage format.
    *
      - float64
      - ``double``
      - A 64-bit floating-point number, conforming to the IEEE 754 double precision storage format.

.. note::

  * The float8 and tensorfloat32 types are internal types used in calculations in the Matrix Cores and can be stored in any type of the same size.
  * The encodings for FP8 (E5M2) and FP8 (E4M3) natively supported by MI300 differ from the FP8 (E5M2) and FP8 (E4M3) encodings used in H100 (`FP8 formats for Deep Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.05433>`_ ).
  * In some AMD documents and articles float8 (E5M2) is called bfloat8.

The support icon description
==========================================

> The ROCm™ data support icon explanation listed in the following table. These
> icons are used at the data type support pages with the same meaning.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ROCm™ data support icon explanation is listed in the following table. These
icons are used at the data type support pages of the libraries with the same meaning.
```

.. tab-set::

  .. tab-item:: Integral types
    :sync: integral-type

    .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * 
        - Type name
        - int8
        - int16
        - int32
        - int64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅

  .. tab-item:: Floating-point types
    :sync: floating-point-type

    .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * 
        - Type name
        - float8 (E4M3)
        - float8 (E5M2)
        - float16  
        - bfloat16
        - tensorfloat32
        - float32
        - float64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅

Matrix core support
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The matrix core support of data types listed in the following table.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following table lists which data types are supported on the matrix cores of different AMD GPUs.
```

.. tab-set::

  .. tab-item:: Integral types
    :sync: integral-type

    .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * 
        - Type name
        - int8
        - int16
        - int32
        - int64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ❌
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ❌
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ❌

  .. tab-item:: Floating-point types
    :sync: floating-point-type

    .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * 
        - Type name
        - float8 (E4M3)
        - float8 (E5M2)
        - float16  
        - bfloat16
        - tensorfloat32
        - float32
        - float64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅
        - ✅

Atomic operations support
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The atomic operations support of data types listed in the following table.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The support for atomic opperations for the different AMD GPUs is listed in the following table.
```

        - int64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅

  .. tab-item:: Floating-point types
    :sync: floating-point-type

    .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * 
        - Type name
        - float8 (E4M3)
        - float8 (E5M2)
        - float16  
        - bfloat16
        - tensorfloat32
        - float32
        - float64
      * 
        - Mi100
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
      * 
        - Mi200 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅
      * 
        - Mi300 series
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ❌
        - ❌
        - ✅
        - ✅

.. note::

  At natively not supported cases, the atomic operations can be emulated by
  software. Such software emulated atomic operations have high negative
  performance impact, when they frequently acces the same memory address.

Data Type support in ROCm Libraries
==========================================

> ROCm™ libraries support for int8, float8 (E4M3), float8 (E5M2), int16, float16,
> bfloat16, int32, tensorfloat32, float32, int64 and float64 listed in the
> following tables.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ROCm™ libraries support for int8, float8 (E4M3), float8 (E5M2), int16, float16,
bfloat16, int32, tensorfloat32, float32, int64 and float64 is listed in the
following tables.
```

Libraries input/output type support
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The ROCm™ libraries support of specific input and output data types listed in 
> the following tables. For a detailed description open the library data type
> support page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ROCm™ libraries support of specific input and output data types is listed in 
the following tables. For a detailed description open the corresponding library data type
support page.
```

        - float64
      * 
        - hipSPARSELt (:doc:`details<hipsparselt:reference/data-type-support>`)
        - ❌/❌ 
        - ❌/❌
        - ✅/✅
        - ✅/✅
        - ❌/❌
        - ❌/❌
        - ❌/❌
      * 
        - rocRAND (:doc:`details<rocrand:data-type-support>`) 
        - -/❌
        - -/❌
        - -/✅
        - -/❌
        - -/❌
        - -/✅
        - -/✅
      * 
        - hipRAND (:doc:`details<hiprand:data-type-support>`) 
        - -/❌
        - -/❌
        - -/✅
        - -/❌
        - -/❌
        - -/✅
        - -/✅
      * 
        - rocPRIM (:doc:`details<rocprim:data-type-support>`) 
        - ❌/❌ 
        - ❌/❌
        - ✅/✅
        - ✅/✅
        - ❌/❌
        - ✅/✅
        - ✅/✅
      * 
        - hipCUB (:doc:`details<hipcub:data-type-support>`) 
        - ❌/❌ 
        - ❌/❌
        - ✅/✅
        - ✅/✅
        - ❌/❌
        - ✅/✅
        - ✅/✅
      * 
        - rocThrust (:doc:`details<rocthrust:data-type-support>`)  
        - ❌/❌ 
        - ❌/❌
        - ⚠️/⚠️
        - ⚠️/⚠️
        - ❌/❌
        - ✅/✅
        - ✅/✅

Libraries internal calculations type support
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The ROCm™ libraries support of specific internal data types listed in the
> following tables. For a detailed description open the library data type support
> page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ROCm™ libraries support of specific internal data types is listed in the
following tables. For a detailed description open the corresponding library data type support
page.
```
